The FreeIPA team is proud to announce version FreeIPA v3.1.1.

It can be downloaded from http://www.freeipa.org/page/Downloads.

.. _highlights_in_3.1.1:

Highlights in 3.1.1
-------------------

-  Increase default maxbersize so new replica installs won't fail if the
   CRL becomes very large.
-  Do not crash in ipa-client-install in DNS discovery when a TXT record
   was configured, but the referred domain did not contain any Kerberos
   SRV record.
-  Cookie Expires date should be locale insensitive
-  Enable SSSD on installation in client installs. We had relied on
   authconfig to enable it but it no longer does so when passed the
   --enablesssd flag. It just configures SSSD in the PAM stack.

Upgrading
---------

An IPA server can be upgraded simply by installing updated rpms. The
server does not need to be shut down in advance.

Please note, that the referential integrity extension requires an
extended set of indexes to be configured. RPM update for an IPA server
with a excessive number of hosts, SUDO or HBAC entries may require
several minutes to finish.

If you have multiple servers you may upgrade them one at a time. It is
expected that all servers will be upgraded in a relatively short period
(days or weeks not months). They should be able to co-exist peacefully
but new features will not be available on old servers and enrolling a
new client against an old server will result in the SSH keys not being
uploaded.

Downgrading a server once upgraded is not supported.

Upgrading from 2.2.0 is supported. Upgrading from previous versions is
not supported and has not been tested.

An enrolled client does not need the new packages installed unless you
want to re-enroll it. SSH keys for already installed clients are not
uploaded, you will have to re-enroll the client or manually upload the
keys.

Feedback
--------

Please provide comments, bugs and other feedback via the freeipa-devel
mailing list: http://www.redhat.com/mailman/listinfo/freeipa-devel

.. _detailed_changelog_since_3.1.0:

Detailed Changelog since 3.1.0
------------------------------

JR Aquino (1):

-  Allow PKI-CA Replica Installs when CRL exceeds default maxber value

John Dennis (1):

-  Cookie Expires date should be locale insensitive

Lynn Root (2):

-  Fixed the catch of the hostname option during ipa-server-install
-  Raise ValidationError when CSR does not have a subject hostname

Martin Kosek (4):

-  Add Lynn Root to Contributors.txt
-  Enable SSSD on client install
-  Fix delegation-find command --group handling
-  Do not crash when Kerberos SRV record is not found

Rob Crittenden (1):

-  Become IPA 3.1.1

Simo Sorce (1):

-  Log info on failure to connect

Tomas Babej (2):

-  Relax restriction for leading/trailing whitespaces in \*-find
   commands
-  Forbid overlapping rid ranges for the same id range
