\__NOTOC_\_ October 19, 2011

The FreeIPA project team is pleased to announce the availability of the
freeIPA 2.1.3 server.

It is available in Fedora 15, 16 and rawhide.

.. _what_happened_to_2.1.2:

What happened to 2.1.2!?
------------------------

Right after tagging 2.1.2 we found an upgrade issue that would have
affected any users using the selfsign CA (installed with --selfsign). We
decided to hold back the release, fix a few more bugs, and just push out
2.1.3 instead about a week later. So here we are.

.. _highlights_in_2.1.3:

Highlights in 2.1.3
-------------------

-  Enforce that system hostname matches hostname of IPA server.
-  Require that /etc/hosts is sane even when configuring DNS.
-  Increase default server-side LDAP search limits.
-  Client enrollment improvements including longer wait for sssd to
   start, recovery if discovered IPA server is not responsive and when
   anonymous bind is disabled in 389-ds.

.. _highlights_in_2.1.2:

Highlights in 2.1.2
-------------------

-  Upgrade older dogtag installs to use new PKI proxy configuration
-  hbactest improvements
-  Added platform-independent code to make ipa-client-install more
   portable
-  Make client uninstaller more robust, should restore state more
   completely.
-  UI usability improvements
-  Tool for Enabling/Disabling Managed Entry Plugins
-  Managed Entries configuration is now replicated
-  IPv6 client enrollment improvements
-  Man page improvements
-  Performance improvements when calculating indirect membership
-  Improved handling of disabled anonymous binds in 389-ds
-  user is now prompted to enter current password when changing to a new

password

-  ipa server now support multiple namingContexts. ipa-client-install
   and

password migration were fixed

Upgrading
---------

Server
~~~~~~

To upgrade a 2.0.0, 2.0.1 or 2.1.0 server do the following:

``# yum update freeipa-server --enablerepo=updates-testing``

This will pull in updated freeIPA, 389-ds, dogtag, libcurl and xmlrpc-c
packages (and perhaps some others). A script will be executed in the rpm
postinstall phase to update the IPA LDAP server with any required
changes.

There is a bug reported against 389-ds,
https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=730387, related to
read-write locks. The NSPR RW lock implementation does not safely allow
re-entrant use of reader locks. This is a timing issue so it is
difficult to predict. During testing one user experienced this and the
upgrade hung. To break the hang kill the ns-slapd process for your
realm, wait for the yum transaction to complete, then restart 389-ds and
manually run the update process:

| ``# service dirsrv start``
| ``# ipa-ldap-updater --update``

Client
~~~~~~

The ipa-client-install tool in the ipa-client package is just a
configuration tool. There should be no need to re-run this on every
client already enrolled.

.. _detailed_changelog_for_2.1.3:

Detailed Changelog for 2.1.3
----------------------------

Adam Young (1):

-  Fix dynamic display of UI tabs based on rights

Alexander Bokovoy (8):

-  Increase number of 'getent passwd attempts' to 10
-  Force kerberos realm to be a string
-  Include indirect membership and canonicalize hosts during HBAC rules
   testing
-  Refactor backup_and_replace_hostname() into a flexible config
   modification tool
-  Write KRB5REALM to /etc/sysconfig/krb5kdc and make use of common
   backup_config_and_replace_variables() tool
-  Refactor authconfig use in ipa-client-install
-  Document --preserve-sssd option of ipa-client-install
-  Use set class instead of dictview class as set is wider supported

Jan Cholasta (3):

-  Disallow deletion of global password policy.
-  Don't leak passwords through kdb5_ldap_util command line arguments.
-  Remove more redundant configuration values from krb5.conf.

John Dennis (1):

-  Fix Spanish po translation file

Martin Kosek (12):

-  Improve default user/group object class validation
-  Fix i18n in config plugin
-  Fix dnszone-add name_from_ip server validation
-  Improve handling of GIDs when migrating groups
-  ipa-client-install hangs if the discovered server is unresponsive
-  Optimize member/memberof searches in LDAP
-  Make IPv4 address parsing more strict
-  Check hostname resolution sanity
-  Hostname used by IPA must be a system hostname
-  Check /etc/hosts file in ipa-server-install
-  Fix ipa-client-install -U option alignment
-  Improve hostgroup/netgroup collision checks

Petr Vobornik (2):

-  Added missing fields to password policy page
-  Fixed: Unable to add external user for RunAs User for Sudo rules

Rob Crittenden (12):

-  Fix DNS permissions and membership in privileges
-  Fix upgrades of selfsign server
-  Make ipa-join work against an LDAP server that disallows anon binds
-  Fix has_upg() to work with relocated managed entries configuration.
-  Work around limits not being updatable in 389-ds.
-  Save the value of hostname even if it doesn't appear in
   /etc/sysconfig/network
-  Add explicit instructions to ipa-replica-manage for winsync
   replication
-  Set min nvr of 389-ds-base to 1.2.10-0.4.a4 for limits fixes (740942,
   742324)
-  Handle an empty value in a name/value pair in
   config_replace_variables()
-  Update all LDAP configuration files that we can.
-  If our domain is already configured in sssd.conf start with a new
   config.
-  Fix typo in invalid PTR record error message

Simo Sorce (1):

-  updates: Change default limits on ldap searches

.. _detailed_changelog_for_2.1.2:

Detailed Changelog for 2.1.2
----------------------------

Adam Young (4):

-  split metadata call
-  Make mod_nss renegotiation configuration a public function
-  Execute pki proxy setup when server is upgraded if needed
-  Force the upgrade of pki-setup when upgrading the RPMS

Alexander Bokovoy (13):

-  Incorrect name in examples of ipa help hbactest
-  Unroll groups when testing HBAC rules
-  Introduce platform-specific adaptation for services used by FreeIPA.
-  Convert server install code to platform-independent access to system
   services
-  Convert client-side tools to platform-independent access to system
   services
-  Convert installation tools to platform-independent access to system
   services
-  Cleanup whitespace
-  When external host is specified in HBAC rule, allow its use in
   simulation
-  Unroll StrEnum values when displaying help
-  Configure pam_krb5 on the client only if sssd is not configured
-  Setup and restore ntp configuration on the client side properly
-  Fix 'referenced before assignment' warning
-  Before kinit, try to sync time with the NTP servers of the domain we
   are joining

Endi S. Dewata (24):

-  Fixed unit test for entity select widget.
-  Fixed layout problem in permission adder dialog.
-  Fixed sudo rule association dialogs.
-  Fixed missing optional field.
-  Fixed labels for run-as users and groups.
-  Fixed problem opening host adder dialog.
-  Removed entitlement menu.
-  Fixed posix group checkbox.
-  Fixed columns in HBAC/sudo rules list pages.
-  Fixed missing cancel button in unprovisioning dialog.
-  Fixed problem enabling/disabling DNS zone.
-  Fixed problem enrolling member with the same name.
-  Modified dialog to use sections.
-  Removed undo flags from dialog field specs.
-  Fixed problem on combobox with search limit.
-  Fixed problem displaying special characters.
-  Fixed add/delete arrows position.
-  Fixed duplicate entries in enrollment dialog.
-  Updated color scheme.
-  Fixed tab and dialog widths.
-  Disable enroll button if nothing selected.
-  Fixed missing default shell field.
-  I18n clean-up.
-  Disable sudo options Delete button if nothing selected.

JR Aquino (1):

-  Create Tool for Enabling/Disabling Managed Entry Plugins

Jakub Hrozek (1):

-  Silence a compilation warning in ipa_kpasswd

Jan Cholasta (6):

-  Check that install hostname matches the server hostname.
-  Fix client install on IPv6 machines.
-  Fix ipa-replica-prepare always warning the user about not using the
   system hostname.
-  Validate name_from_ip parameter of dnszone.
-  Add a function for formatting network locations of the form host:port
   for use in URLs.
-  Work around pkisilent bugs.

Jr Aquino (1):

-  Move Managed Entries into their own container in the replicated
   space.

Marko Myllynen (1):

-  Don't remove /tmp when removing temp cert dir

Martin Kosek (21):

-  Improve man pages structure
-  Improve ipa-join man page
-  Fix permissions in installers
-  Fix configure.jar permissions
-  Set bind and bind-dyndb-ldap min nvr
-  Fix pylint false positive in hbactest module
-  ipactl does not stop dirsrv
-  dirsrv is not stopped correctly in the fallback
-  Remove checks for ds-replication plugin
-  Fix /usr/bin/ipa dupled server list
-  Revert "Always require SSL in the Kerberos authorization block."
-  Fix error messages in hbacrule
-  Fix LDAPCreate search failure
-  Fix HBAC tests hostnames
-  ipa-client assumes a single namingcontext
-  migrate process cannot handle multivalued pkey attribute
-  Be more clear about selfsign option
-  Install tools crash when password prompt is interrupted
-  Improve ipa-replica-prepare DNS check
-  Prevent collisions of hostgroup and netgroup
-  Make sure ipa-client-install returns correct error code

Nalin Dahyabhai (2):

-  list users from nested groups, too
-  Update man pages to note that PKCS#12 files also contain private
   keys, and that the "pkinit" options refer to the KDC's credentials

Petr Vobornik (10):

-  Fixed: JavaScript type error in entitlement page
-  Fixed inconsistency in enabling delete buttons
-  Code cleanup: widget creation
-  Fixed: Column header for attributes table should be full width
-  Fixed: Enrolment dialog offers to add entity to reflexive
   association.
-  Fixed: Some widgets do not have space for validation error message
-  Disables gid field if not posix group in group adder dialog
-  Fixed links to images in config and migration pages
-  Split Web UI initialization to several smaller calls #2
-  Split Web UI initialization to several smaller calls

Rob Crittenden (20):

-  Don't allow a OTP to be set on an enrolled host
-  Remove normalizer that made role, privilege and permission names
   lower-case
-  Improved handling for ipa-pki-proxy.conf
-  The precendence on the modrdn plugin was set in the wrong location.
-  Update ipa-ldap-updater man page saying it is not an end-user utility
-  Skip the cert validator if the csr we are passed in is a valid
   filename
-  Change the Requires for the server and server-selinux for proper
   order
-  Suppress managed netgroups as indirect members of hosts.
-  The return value of restorecon is not reliable, ignore it.
-  Normalize uid in user principal to lower-case and do validation
-  Shut down duplicated file handle when HTTP response code is not 200.
-  Don't log one-time password in logs when configuring client.
-  Always require SSL in the Kerberos authorization block.
-  Include failed service and service groups in hbac rule management
-  Add regular expression pattern to host names.
-  Detect CA installation type in ipa-replica-prepare and
   ipa-ca-install.
-  Require current password when using passwd to change your own
   password.
-  Migration: don't assume there is only one naming context, add
   logging.
-  When calculating indirect membership don't test nesting on users and
   hosts.

Simo Sorce (4):

-  ipa-pwd-extop: Fix segfault in password change.
-  ipa-pwd-extop: Enforce old password checks
-  ipa-client-install: Fix joining when LDAP access is restricted
-  replica-prepare: anonymous binds may be disallowed

Sumit Bose (2):

-  Call standard_logging_setup() before any logging is done
-  ipa-pwd-extop: allow password change on all connections with SSF>1

Yuri Chornoivan (1):

-  Fix typos
