\__NOTOC_\_ September 7, 2011

The FreeIPA project team is pleased to announce the availability of the
`freeIPA 2.1.1 server <http://www.freeipa.org/page/Downloads>`__.

It is available in Fedora 15.

.. _known_issues:

Known Issues
------------

-  The OCSP URL encoded in dogtag certificates is by default the CA
   machine that issued the certificate.

.. _changelog_since_2.1.0:

Changelog since 2.1.0
---------------------

Adam Young (1):

-  enable proxy for dogtag

Alexander Bokovoy (1):

-  Propagate environment when it is required.

Endi S. Dewata (19):

-  Fixed browser configuration pages
-  Hide activation/deactivation link from regular users.
-  Fixed problem selecting value from combobox
-  Fixed inconsistent layout for password reset dialog.
-  Removed 'Hide already enrolled' checkbox.
-  Replaced page dirty dialog title.
-  Updated add and delete association dialog titles.
-  Removed unnecessary HBAC/sudo rule category modification.
-  Fixed command partial failure handling.
-  Fixed default map type in automount map adder dialog.
-  Fixed host OTP status.
-  Fixed host keytab status after setting OTP.
-  Fixed host adder dialog to show default DNS zone.
-  Fixed hard-coded UI messages.
-  Fixed problem adding hostgroup into netgroup.
-  Fixed problem with combobox.
-  Fixed hard-coded UI message in entity.js.
-  Fixed missing permission filter field.
-  Fixed problem with combobox using Sahi

Jan Cholasta (6):

-  Make sure messagebus is running prior to starting certmonger.
-  Verify that passwords specified through command line options of
   ipa-server install meet the length requirement.
-  Add option to install without the automatic redirect to the Web UI.
-  Search for users in all the naming contexts present on the directory
   server.
-  Add subscription-manager dependency for RHEL.
-  Verify that the external CA certificate files are correct.

John Dennis (11):

-  ticket 1568 - DN objects should support the insert method
-  ticket 1569 - Test DN object non-latin Unicode support
-  ticket 1600 - convert unittests to use DN objects
-  ticket 1659 - invalid i18n string in dns.py
-  ticket 1660 - update LINGUAS file, add missing po files
-  ticket 1661 - Update all po files
-  ticket 1650 - compute accurate translation statistics
-  ticket 1707 - add documentation validation to makeapi tool
-  ticket 1705 - internationalize help topics
-  ticket 1706 - internationalize cli help framework
-  ticket 1669 - improve i18n docstring extraction

Jr Aquino (2):

-  Improve sudorule documentation
-  Create FreeIPA CLI Plugin for the 389 Auto Membership plugin

Martin Kosek (6):

-  Add missing attribute labels for sudorule
-  Fix automountkey-mod
-  Fix automountlocation-import conflicts
-  ipa-client-install breaks network configuration
-  Fix sudo help and summaries
-  Let Bind track data changes

Petr Vobornik (8):

-  error dialog for batch command
-  Uncheck checkboxes in association after deletion
-  Show error in adding associations
-  Validation of details facet before update
-  Modify serial associator to use batch
-  Modifying sudo options refreshes the whole page
-  Enable update and reset button only if dirty
-  Attributes table not scrollable

Rob Crittenden (24):

-  Add information on setting api.env.host in the ipactl.8 man page
-  Log each command in a batch separately.
-  Do batch logging on successful commands too, not just failures.
-  Fix wording in examples of delegation plugin.
-  Suppress 389-ds debug output when starting services
-  Fix thread deadlock by using pthreads library instead of NSPR.
-  Change the way has_keytab is determined, also check for password.
-  Add additional pam ftp services to HBAC, and a ftp HBAC service group
-  Add label for HBAC services to show as members
-  Add option to only prompt once for passwords, use in entitle_register
-  Retrieve password/keytab state when modifying a host.
-  Disable reverse lookups in ipa-join and ipa-getkeytab
-  Remove more 389-ds files/directories on uninstallation.
-  Remove 389-ds upgrade state during uninstall
-  Set min nvr of pki-ca to 9.0.12 for fix in BZ 700505
-  Add common is_installed() fn, better uninstall logging, check for
   errors.
-  Add external source hosts to HBAC.
-  Roll back changes if client installation fails.
-  Add netgroup as possible memberOf for hostgroups
-  Sort lists so order is predictable and tests pass as expected.
-  Suppress managed netgroups from showing as memberof hostgroups.
-  Use the IPA server cert profile in the installer.
-  Set min nvr of 389-ds-base to 1.2.9.7-1 for BZ 728605
-  Become IPA 2.1.1

Simo Sorce (1):

-  conncheck: Fix List of ports to check
