The FreeIPA team is proud to announce version FreeIPA v3.1.0.

It can be downloaded from http://www.freeipa.org/page/Downloads.

A build will be submitted to updates-testing for Fedora 18 soon.

.. _highlights_in_3.1.0:

Highlights in 3.1.0
-------------------

-  A single 389-ds instance is used both for IPA identity data and for
   the dogtag CA server on new installs.
-  Support for Windows 2012 Server Trusts.
-  Verify that the IPA certificates are not tracked by certmonger after
   server uninstallation.
-  Enable 389-ds transactions.
-  If chronyd is running on a server disable it and replace it with ntpd
   by default.
-  Add new OCSP and CRL URIs to the IPA certificate profile for a new
   CNAME entry, ipa-ca.example.com.
-  Fix potential security error in cookie handling in ipa client tool,
   CVE-2012-5631.

Upgrading
---------

An IPA server can be upgraded simply by installing updated rpms. The
server does not need to be shut down in advance.

Please note, that the referential integrity extension requires an
extended set of indexes to be configured. RPM update for an IPA server
with a excessive number of hosts, SUDO or HBAC entries may require
several minutes to finish.

If you have multiple servers you may upgrade them one at a time. It is
expected that all servers will be upgraded in a relatively short period
(days or weeks not months). They should be able to co-exist peacefully
but new features will not be available on old servers and enrolling a
new client against an old server will result in the SSH keys not being
uploaded.

Downgrading a server once upgraded is not supported.

Upgrading from 2.2.0 is supported. Upgrading from previous versions is
not supported and has not been tested.

Upgrading from a previous version will not consolidate the 389-ds
instances. Only new installations get a unified 389-ds backend. Upgraded
servers will retain both instances.

An enrolled client does not need the new packages installed unless you
want to re-enroll it. SSH keys for already installed clients are not
uploaded, you will have to re-enroll the client or manually upload the
keys.

Feedback
--------

Please provide comments, bugs and other feedback via the freeipa-devel
mailing list: http://www.redhat.com/mailman/listinfo/freeipa-devel

.. _detailed_changelog_since_3.0.1:

Detailed Changelog since 3.0.1
------------------------------

Ade Lee (1):

-  Changes to use a single database for dogtag and IPA

Alexander Bokovoy (8):

-  ipa-kdb: Support Windows 2012 Server
-  Remove bogus check for smbpasswd
-  Warn about DNA plugin configuration when working with local ID ranges
-  Resolve external members from trusted domain via Global Catalog
-  Clarify trust-add help regarding multiple runs against the same
   domain
-  ipasam: better Kerberos error handling in ipasam
-  trusts: replace use of python-crypto by m2crypto
-  Propagate kinit errors with trust account

Endi Sukma Dewata (1):

-  Configuring CA with ConfigParser.

Jakub Hrozek (5):

-  ipa-client-automount: Add the autofs service if it doesn't exist yet
-  Make enabling the autofs service more robust
-  ipachangeconf: allow specifying non-default delimeter for options
-  Specify includedir in krb5.conf on new installs
-  Add the includedir to krb5.conf on upgrades

Jan Cholasta (1):

-  Reword description of the --passsync option of ipa-replica-manage.

John Dennis (2):

-  log dogtag errors
-  Compliant client side session cookie behavior

Lubomir Rintel (1):

-  Drop unused readline import

Martin Kosek (18):

-  Update SELinux policy for dogtag10
-  Bump 389-ds-base minimum in our spec file
-  Add OCSP and CRL URIs to certificates
-  Stop and disable conflicting time&date services
-  Create reverse zone in unattended mode
-  Add fallback for httpd restarts on sysV platforms
-  Report ipa-upgradeconfig errors during RPM upgrade
-  Avoid uninstalling dependencies during package lifetime
-  Remove servertrls and clientctrls options from rename_s
-  Use common encoding in modlist generation
-  Process relative nameserver DNS record correctly
-  Do not require resolvable nameserver in DNS install
-  Disable global forwarding per-zone
-  Prepare spec file for Fedora 18
-  Filter suffix in replication management tools
-  Change network configuration file
-  Improve ipa-replica-prepare error message
-  Fix sshd feature check

Nikolai Kondrashov (1):

-  Add uninstall command hints to ipa-*-instal

Petr Viktorin (12):

-  Fix schema replication from old masters
-  Use correct Dogtag configuration in get_pin and get_ca_certchain
-  Update certmap.conf on IPA upgrades
-  Properly stop tracking certificates on uninstall
-  Provide 'protocol' argument to IPAdmin
-  Make ipa-csreplica-manage work with both merged and non-merged DBs
-  Use DN objects for Dogtag configuration
-  ipautil.run: Log the command line before running the command
-  ipa-replica-install: Use configured IPA DNS servers in
   forward/reverse resolution check
-  Make sure the CA is running when starting services
-  Provide explicit user name for Dogtag installation scripts
-  Add Lubomir Rintel to Contributors.txt

Petr Vobornik (7):

-  Simpler instructions to generate certificate
-  Fixed incorrect link to browser config after session expiration
-  Web UI: disable global forwarding per zone
-  WebUI: Change of default value of type of new group back to POSIX
-  Editable sshkey, mac address field after upgrade
-  Better licensing information of 3rd party code
-  Better error message for login of users from other realms

Rob Crittenden (16):

-  Enable transactions by default, make password and modrdn TXN-aware
-  Become IPA 3.1.0
-  Password change in a transaction, ensure passwords are truly expired
-  Don't configure a reverse zone if not desired in interactive
   installer.
-  Fix requesting certificates that contain subject altnames.
-  Improve error messages in ipa-replica-manage.
-  Close connection after each request, avoid NSS shutdown problem.
-  The SECURE_NFS value needs to be lower-case yes on SysV systems.
-  After unininstall see if certmonger is still tracking any of our
   certs.
-  Wait for the directory server to come up when updating the agent
   certificate.
-  Set MLS/MCS for user_u context to what will be on remote systems.
-  Handle the case where there are no replicas with list-ruv
-  Honor the kdb options disabling KDC writes in ipa_lockout plugin
-  Only update the list of running services in the installer or ipactl.
-  Set min for selinux-policy to 3.11.1-60
-  Reorder XML-RPC initialization in ipa-join to avoid segfault.

Simo Sorce (7):

-  Add support for using AES for cross-realm TGTs
-  Preserve original service_name in services
-  Save service name on service startup
-  Get list of service from LDAP only at startup
-  Revert "Save service name on service startup"
-  Save service name on service startup/shutdown
-  MS-PAC: Special case NFS services

Sumit Bose (7):

-  Fix various issues found by Coverity
-  extdom: handle INP_POSIX_UID and INP_POSIX_GID requests
-  Restart httpd if ipa-server-trust-ad is installed or updated
-  ipa-adtrust-install: allow to reset te NetBIOS domain name
-  Lookup the user SID in external group as well
-  Restart sssd after authconfig update
-  Do not recommend how to configure DNS in error message

Tomas Babej (5):

-  Forbid overlapping primary and secondary rid ranges
-  Refactoring of default.conf man page
-  Make service naming in ipa-server-install consistent
-  IPA Server check in ipa-replica-manage
-  Add detection for users from trusted/invalid realms
