\__NOTOC_\_ May 2, 2011

The FreeIPA project team is pleased to announce the availability of the
`freeIPA 2.0.1 server <http://www.freeipa.org/page/Downloads>`__.

It is available in Fedora 15 and Fedora rawhide.

.. _known_issues:

Known Issues
------------

-  If the domain and realm do not match you may need to use the --force
   flag with ipa-client-install.
-  Dogtag replication is done separately from IPA replication. The
   ipa-replica-manage tool does not currently operate on dogtag
   replication agreements.
-  The OCSP URL encoded in dogtag certificates is by default the CA
   machine that issued the certificate.

.. _changelog_since_2.0.0:

Changelog since 2.0.0
---------------------

Endi S. Dewata (1):

-  Fixed undefined label in permission adder dialog box.

Jan Cholasta (10):

-  Fix wording of error message.
-  Add note about ipa-dns-install to ipa-server-install man page.
-  Fix typo in ipa-server-install.
-  Fix uninitialized variables.
-  Fix double definition of output_for_cli.
-  Add lint script for static code analysis.
-  Fix lint false positives.
-  Remove unused classes.
-  Fix some minor issues uncovered by pylint.
-  Fix uninitialized attributes.

Jr Aquino (4):

-  Escape LDAP characters in member and memberof searches
-  Add memberHost and memberUser to default indexes
-  Optimize and dynamically verify group membership
-  Delete the sudoers entry when disabling Schema Compat

Martin Kosek (12):

-  Inconsistent error message for duplicate user
-  Replica installation fails for self-signed server
-  Password policy commands do not include cospriority
-  Improve DNS PTR record validation
-  IPA replica is not started after the reboot
-  Improve Directory Service open port checker
-  Log temporary files in ipa-client-install
-  Prevent uninstalling client on the IPA server
-  pwpolicy-mod doesn't accept old attribute values
-  Forbid reinstallation in ipa-client-install
-  ipa-client-install uninstall does not work on IPA server
-  LDAP Updater may crash IPA installer

Pavel Zuna (1):

-  Fix gidnumber option of user-add command.

Rob Crittenden (18):

-  Allow a client to enroll using principal when the host has a OTP
-  Make retrieval of the CA during DNS discovery non-fatal.
-  Cache the value of get_ipa_config() in the request context.
-  Change default gecos from uid to first and last name.
-  Fix ORDERING in some attributetypes and remove other unnecessary
   elements.
-  postalCode should be a string not an integer.
-  Fix traceback in ipa-nis-manage.
-  Suppress --on-master from ipa-client-install command-line and man
   page.
-  Sort entries returned by \*-find by the primary key (if any).
-  The default groups we create should have ipaUniqueId set
-  Always ask members in LDAP*ReverseMember commands.
-  Provide attributelevelrights for the aci components in
   permission_show.
-  Wait for memberof task and DS to start before proceeding in
   installation.
-  Convert manager from userid to dn for storage and back for
   displaying.
-  Modify the default attributes shown in user-find to match the UI
   design.
-  Ensure that the zonemgr passed to the installer conforms to
   IA5String.
-  Handle principal not found errors when converting replication
   agreements

Simo Sorce (2):

-  Fix resource leaks.
-  ipautil: Preserve environment unless explicitly overridden by caller.
